README.md, before:

Table of Contents
=================

* [Introduction](#play-mockws)
* [Release notes](#release-notes)
* [Simple example](#example)
* [Adding play-mockws to your project](#adding-play-mockws-to-your-project)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Compatibility matrix](#compatibility-matrix)

## play-mockws

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/leanovate/play-mockws.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/leanovate/play-mockws)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Coverage/a7f45a8cbd2a4085ac03ff8c163e3394)](https://www.codacy.com/app/yann-simon-fr/play-mockws?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=leanovate/play-mockws&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Coverage)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/leanovate/play-mockws/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/leanovate/play-mockws)
[![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/de.leanovate.play-mockws/play-mockws_2.11/badge.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/de.leanovate.play-mockws/play-mockws_2.11)

Play MockWS is a mock WS client for Play Framework.

If:
- you write an application in Scala with the [Play Framework](https://playframework.com/)
- the application makes HTTP calls to external web services with the [WS client](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/latest/ScalaWS)
- you want to test your implementation

then you can use `play-mockws` to simulate HTTP requests to external web services in your tests.

## Release Notes

see [RELEASE-NOTES.md](RELEASE-NOTES.md)

## Example

```scala
// simulation of a GET request to http://dns/url
val ws = MockWS {
  case (GET, "http://dns/url") => Action { Ok("http response") }
}

await(ws.url("http://dns/url").get()).body == "http response"
```

## Adding play-mockws to your project

Add MockWS as test dependency in the `build.sbt`:

* for Play 2.6.x:
```scala
libraryDependencies += "de.leanovate.play-mockws" %% "play-mockws" % "2.6.0" % Test
```
* for Play 2.5.x:
```scala
libraryDependencies += "de.leanovate.play-mockws" %% "play-mockws" % "2.5.1" % Test
```
* for Play 2.4.x:
```scala
libraryDependencies += "de.leanovate.play-mockws" %% "play-mockws" % "2.4.2" % Test
```
* for Play 2.3.x:
```scala
libraryDependencies += "de.leanovate.play-mockws" %% "play-mockws" % "2.3.2" % Test
```


And use it:
```scala
import mockws.MockWS

val ws = MockWS { ... }
```

## Usage

##### General usage

A `MockWS` instance can be directly constructed with a partial function like this:
```scala
val ws = MockWS {
  case (GET, "/") => Action { Ok("homepage") }
  case (POST, "/users") => Action { request => Created((request.body.asJson.get \ "id").as[String]) }
  case (GET, "/users/24") => Action { NotFound("") }
}
```
The partial function binds 2 Strings, an HTTP method and the URL, to a Play [Action](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/latest/ScalaActions).

For clarity, this partial function is aliased as [MockWS.Routes](src/main/scala/mockws/MockWS.scala)

When calling MockWS.url(), if the HTTP method and the URL are found, the defined play action is evaluated.

##### Controlling the routes

If you want more control on the routes, for example to know whether a route was called or how many times, use the [Route](src/main/scala/mockws/Route.scala) class for this.

Routes can be defined together with the standard function `orElse`.

```scala
val route1 = Route {
  case (GET, "/route1") => Action { Ok("") }
}
val route2 = Route {
  case (GET, "/route2") => Action { Ok("") }
}

val ws = MockWS(route1 orElse route2)

await(ws.url("/route1").get())

route1.called == true
route2.called == false

route1.timeCalled == 1
route2.timeCalled == 0
```

An example how to structure an implementation to test it with MockWS can be found [here](src/test/scala/mockws/Example.scala).

Other examples can be found in the [tests](src/test/scala/mockws/).

## Compatibility Matrix

- MockWS 2.6.x is actually only compatible with Play 2.6.y., with Scala 2.12 or 2.11.
- MockWS 2.5.x is actually only compatible with Play 2.5.y., with Scala 2.11.
- MockWS 2.4.x is actually only compatible with Play 2.4.y., with Scala 2.10 or 2.11.
- MockWS 2.3.x is actually only compatible with Play 2.3.y., with Scala 2.10 or 2.11.

Commit message:

Add a trait that allows to use the new Play 2.6 Actions without much hassle.

README.md, after:

Table of Contents
=================

* [Introduction](#play-mockws)
* [Release notes](#release-notes)
* [Simple example](#example)
* [Adding play-mockws to your project](#adding-play-mockws-to-your-project)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Compatibility matrix](#compatibility-matrix)

## play-mockws

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/leanovate/play-mockws.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/leanovate/play-mockws)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Coverage/a7f45a8cbd2a4085ac03ff8c163e3394)](https://www.codacy.com/app/yann-simon-fr/play-mockws?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=leanovate/play-mockws&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Coverage)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/leanovate/play-mockws/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/leanovate/play-mockws)
[![Maven Central](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/de.leanovate.play-mockws/play-mockws_2.11/badge.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/de.leanovate.play-mockws/play-mockws_2.11)

Play MockWS is a mock WS client for Play Framework.

If:
- you write an application in Scala with the [Play Framework](https://playframework.com/)
- the application makes HTTP calls to external web services with the [WS client](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/latest/ScalaWS)
- you want to test your implementation

then you can use `play-mockws` to simulate HTTP requests to external web services in your tests.

## Release Notes

see [RELEASE-NOTES.md](RELEASE-NOTES.md)

## Example

```scala
// simulation of a GET request to http://dns/url
val ws = MockWS {
  case (GET, "http://dns/url") => Action { Ok("http response") }
}

await(ws.url("http://dns/url").get()).body == "http response"
```

## Adding play-mockws to your project

Add MockWS as test dependency in the `build.sbt`:

* for Play 2.6.x:
```scala
libraryDependencies += "de.leanovate.play-mockws" %% "play-mockws" % "2.6.0" % Test
```
* for Play 2.5.x:
```scala
libraryDependencies += "de.leanovate.play-mockws" %% "play-mockws" % "2.5.1" % Test
```
* for Play 2.4.x:
```scala
libraryDependencies += "de.leanovate.play-mockws" %% "play-mockws" % "2.4.2" % Test
```
* for Play 2.3.x:
```scala
libraryDependencies += "de.leanovate.play-mockws" %% "play-mockws" % "2.3.2" % Test
```


And use it:
```scala
import mockws.MockWS

val ws = MockWS { ... }
```

## Usage

##### General usage

It is recommended that your tests either extend trait MockWSHelpers or import MockWSHelpers. MockWSHelpers
provides an implicit Materializer you need when working with Play's Actions.

```scala
class MySpec extends FreeSpec with Matchers with MockWSHelpers {
  ...
}
```

or
```scala
import mockws.MockWSHelpers._
```

A `MockWS` instance can be directly constructed with a partial function like this:
```scala
val ws = MockWS {
  case (GET, "/") => Action { Ok("homepage") }
  case (POST, "/users") => Action { request => Created((request.body.asJson.get \ "id").as[String]) }
  case (GET, "/users/24") => Action { NotFound("") }
}
```
The partial function binds 2 Strings, an HTTP method and the URL, to a Play [Action](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/latest/ScalaActions).

For clarity, this partial function is aliased as [MockWS.Routes](src/main/scala/mockws/MockWS.scala)

When calling MockWS.url(), if the HTTP method and the URL are found, the defined play action is evaluated.

##### Controlling the routes

If you want more control on the routes, for example to know whether a route was called or how many times, use the [Route](src/main/scala/mockws/Route.scala) class for this.

Routes can be defined together with the standard function `orElse`.

```scala
val route1 = Route {
  case (GET, "/route1") => Action { Ok("") }
}
val route2 = Route {
  case (GET, "/route2") => Action { Ok("") }
}

val ws = MockWS(route1 orElse route2)

await(ws.url("/route1").get())

route1.called == true
route2.called == false

route1.timeCalled == 1
route2.timeCalled == 0
```

An example how to structure an implementation to test it with MockWS can be found [here](src/test/scala/mockws/Example.scala).

Other examples can be found in the [tests](src/test/scala/mockws/).

## Compatibility Matrix

- MockWS 2.6.x is actually only compatible with Play 2.6.y., with Scala 2.12 or 2.11.
- MockWS 2.5.x is actually only compatible with Play 2.5.y., with Scala 2.11.
- MockWS 2.4.x is actually only compatible with Play 2.4.y., with Scala 2.10 or 2.11.
- MockWS 2.3.x is actually only compatible with Play 2.3.y., with Scala 2.10 or 2.11.
